add dlb blog (#13378)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/dlb-connection-balance/index.md

---

> title: "Using Accelerated Offload Connection Load Balance in Istio"

Reviewer: I don't think balance is correct throughout this document. I think it should maybe be balancing or balancer depending on the part of speech.
Example:
```suggestion
title: "Using Accelerated Offload Connection Load Balancing in Istio"
```

Author: Updated.

description: "Accelerate connection balance using DLB connection balance configuration in Istio gateways."
publishdate: 2023-06-08
attribution: "Loong Dai (Intel)"
keywords: [Istio, DLB, gateways]
---

> ## What is connection load balance?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is connection load balancing?
```

Author: Updated.

> Load balancing is a core networking solution used to distribute traffic across multiple servers in a server farm. Load balancers improve application availability and responsiveness and prevent server overload. Each load balancer sits between client devices and backend servers, receiving and then distributing incoming requests to any available server capable of fulfilling them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Load balancing is a core networking solution used to distribute traffic across multiple servers in a server farm.
Load balancers improve application availability and responsiveness and prevent server overload. Each load balancer
sits between client devices and backend servers, receiving and then distributing incoming requests to any available server capable of fulfilling them.
```

Author: Updated.

> For a common web server, it usually has multiple workers (processors or threads). If many clients connect to a single worker, this worker becomes busy and brings big tail latency while other workers run in the free state, affecting the performance of web server. Connection load balance is the solution for this situation, which is also known as connection balance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a common web server, it usually has multiple workers (processors or threads). If many clients connect to
a single worker, this worker becomes busy and brings big tail latency while other workers run in the free state,
affecting the performance of web server. Connection load balance is the solution for this situation,
which is also known as connection balance.
```

Author: Updated.

> For a common web server, it usually has multiple workers (processors or threads). If many clients connect to a single worker, this worker becomes busy and brings big tail latency while other workers run in the free state, affecting the performance of web server. Connection load balance is the solution for this situation, which is also known as connection balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a common web server, it usually has multiple workers (processors or threads). If many clients connect to a single worker, this worker becomes busy and brings long tail latency while other workers run in the free state, affecting the performance of the web server. Connection load balancing is the solution for this situation, which is also known as connection balancing.
```

Author: Updated.

> ## What does Istio do for connection load balance?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does Istio do for connection load balancing?
```

Istio uses Envoy as the data plane.

> Envoy provides a connection load balance implementation called Exact connection balance. As its name says, a lock is held during balancing so that connection counts are nearly exactly balanced between workers. It is "nearly" exact in the sense that a connection might close in parallel thus making the counts incorrect, but this should be rectified on the next accept. This balancer sacrifices accept throughput for accuracy and should be used when there are a small number of connections that rarely cycle, e.g., service mesh gRPC egress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy provides a connection load balancing implementation called Exact connection balance. As its name says, a lock is held during balancing so that connection counts are nearly exactly balanced between workers. It is "nearly" exact in the sense that a connection might close in parallel thus making the counts incorrect, but this should be rectified on the next accept. This balancer sacrifices accept throughput for accuracy and should be used when there are a small number of connections that rarely cycle, e.g., service mesh gRPC egress.
```

Obviously, it is not suitable for an ingress gateway since an ingress gateway accepts thousands of connections within a short time, and the resource cost from the lock brings a big drop in throughput.

> Now, Envoy has an integrated Intel® Dynamic Load Balancing (Intel®DLB) connection load balance to accelerate in big connection cases like ingress gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, Envoy has an integrated Intel® Dynamic Load Balancing (Intel®DLB) connection load balancing to accelerate in big connection cases like ingress gateway.
```

> ## How Intel® Dynamic Load Balancing accelerates connection load balance in Envoy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How Intel® Dynamic Load Balancing accelerates connection load balancing in Envoy
```

Intel DLB is a hardware managed system of queues and arbiters connecting producers and consumers. It is a PCI device envisaged to live in the server CPU uncore and can interact with software running on cores, and potentially with other devices.

Intel DLB implements the following load balancing features:

> - Offloads queue management from software — useful where there are significant queuing-based costs.

Reviewer: Within the next sections of the doc there seems to be an inconsistency on ending lines with punctuation. Some line have it and some don't. This should probably be consistent.

Author: Updated.

    - Especially with multi-producer / multi-consumer scenarios and enqueue batching to multiple destinations.
    - The overhead locks are required to access shared queues in the software. Intel DLB implements lock-free access to shared queues.
- Dynamic, flow aware load balancing and reordering.
    - Ensures equal distribution of tasks and better CPU core utilization. Can provide flow-based atomicity if required.
    - Distributes high bandwidth flows across many cores without loss of packet order
    - Better determinism and avoids excessive queuing latencies
    - Uses less IO memory footprint and saves DDR Bandwidth

> - Priority queuing (up to 8 levels) —allows for QOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Priority queuing (up to 8 levels) — allows for QOS
```

    - Lower latency for traffic that is latency sensitive
    - Optional delay measurements in the packets
- Scalability
    - Allows dynamic sizing of applications, seamless scale up/down.
    - Power aware; application can drop workers to lower power state in cases of lighter load.

There are three types of load balancing queues:

- Unordered: For multiple producers and consumers. The order of tasks is not important, and each task is assigned to the processor core with the lowest current load.
- Ordered: For multiple producers and consumers where the order of tasks is important. When multiple tasks are processed by multiple processor cores, they must be rearranged in the original order.
- Atomic: For multiple producers and consumers, where tasks are grouped according to certain rules. These tasks are processed using the same set of resources and the order of tasks within the same group is important.

> An ingress gateway is expected to process as much data as possible as quickly as possible, so Intel DLB connection load balance uses an unordered queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ingress gateway is expected to process as much data as possible as quickly as possible, so Intel DLB connection load balancing uses an unordered queue.
```

Author: `balancer` would be better here.

> ## How to use Intel DLB connection load balance in Istio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to use Intel DLB connection load balancing in Istio
```

> With the 1.17 release, Istio supports Intel DLB connection load balance officially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the 1.17 release, Istio officially supports Intel DLB connection load balancing.
```

> The following steps show how to use Intel DLB connection load balance in an Istio [Ingress Gateway](../../../docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/) in an SPR (Sapphire Rapids) machine and Kubernetes is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps show how to use Intel DLB connection load balancing in an Istio [Ingress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/) in an SPR (Sapphire Rapids) machine and Kubernetes is ready.
```

### Step 1 Prepare DLB environment

Install the Intel DLB driver by following [the instructions on the Intel DLB driver official site](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/download/686372/intel-dynamic-load-balancer.html).

Install the Intel DLB device plugin with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -k https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/dlb_plugin?ref=v0.26.0
{{< /text >}}

For more details about the Intel DLB device plugin, please refer to [Intel DLB device plugin homepage](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/other_features/dlb#config-connection-balance-dlb).

You can check the Intel DLB device resource:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl describe nodes | grep dlb.intel.com/pf
  dlb.intel.com/pf:   2
  dlb.intel.com/pf:   2
...
{{< /text >}}

### Step 2 Download Istio

> Now the latest version is 1.17.2, let’s download the installation:

Reviewer: This is no longer the latest version.

Author: Updated.

{{< text bash >}}
$ curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | ISTIO_VERSION=1.17.2 TARGET_ARCH=x86_64 sh -
$ cd istio-1.17.2
$ export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
{{< /text >}}

> **TIPS: All following actions will be done under this directory.**

Reviewer: I suspect we can use the normal Istio callout here: https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/contribute/shortcodes/#callouts

Author: Good idea!

You can check the version is 1.17.2:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl version
no running Istio pods in "istio-system"
1.17.2
{{< /text >}}

### Step 3 Install Istio

> Create install configuration for Istio, notice that we assign 4 CPUs and 1 DLB device to ingress gateway and set concurrency as 4, which is equal to the CPU number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an install configuration for Istio, notice that we assign 4 CPUs and 1 DLB device to ingress gateway and set concurrency as 4, which is equal to the CPU number.
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ cat > config.yaml << EOF
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  profile: default
  components:
    ingressGateways:
    - enabled: true
      name: istio-ingressgateway
      k8s:
        overlays:
          - kind: Deployment
            name: istio-ingressgateway
            patches:
              - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].args.[-1]

>                 value: "--concurrency=4"

Reviewer 3: This is not the correct way to set concurrency, should use proxy config

Author: I use this to change, but not work:
```
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: ProxyConfig
metadata:
  name: dlb-proxyconfig
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: istio-ingressgateway
  concurrency: 4
```

Author: From https://discuss.istio.io/t/understanding-the-concurrency-parameter-in-proxy-config/13737, it seems I should set 0 in proxyConfig?

Author: Check https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23470#issuecomment-630302121, I still need to set it as `4`.

Author: @howardjohn could you help ensure my usage is correct?

Author: @howardjohn updated, please review again.

        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 4000m
            memory: 4096Mi
            dlb.intel.com/pf: '1'
          limits:
            cpu: 4000m
            memory: 4096Mi
            dlb.intel.com/pf: '1'
        hpaSpec:
          maxReplicas: 1
          minReplicas: 1
  values:
    telemetry:
      enabled: false
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Use `istioctl` to install:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install -f config.yaml --set values.gateways.istio-ingressgateway.runAsRoot=true -y
{{< /text >}}

> The expected output should be like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The expected output should be like:
```

Reviewer: In a lot of cases, the resulting output is shown in the initial code block, and you can remove the prior line.

Author: Sure.

{{< text plain >}}
✔ Istio core installed
✔ Istiod installed
✔ Ingress gateways installed
✔ Installation complete                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Making this installation the default for injection and validation.

Thank you for installing Istio 1.17.  Please take a few minutes to tell us about your install/upgrade experience!  https://forms.gle/hMHGiwZHPU7UQRWe9
{{< /text >}}

### Step 4 Setup Backend Service

> Since we want to use DLB connection load balance in Istio ingress gateway, we need to create a backend service first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we want to use DLB connection load balancing in Istio ingress gateway, we need to create a backend service first.
```

> Here we choose official sample -- [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/release-1.17/samples/httpbin).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We'll use an Istio-provided sample to test, [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/release-1.17/samples/httpbin).
```

Reviewer 4: Reads more smoothly this way

Author: Updated.

$ kubectl apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: httpbin-gateway
spec:
  # The selector matches the ingress gateway pod labels.
  # If you installed Istio using Helm following the standard documentation, this would be "istio=ingress"
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway
  servers:
  - port:
      number: 80
      name: http
      protocol: HTTP
    hosts:
    - "httpbin.example.com"
EOF
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: httpbin
spec:
  hosts:
  - "httpbin.example.com"
  gateways:
  - httpbin-gateway
  http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /status
    - uri:
        prefix: /delay
    route:
    - destination:
        port:
          number: 8000
        host: httpbin
EOF
{{< /text >}}

You have now created a virtual service configuration for the httpbin service containing two route rules that allow traffic for paths /status and /delay.

The gateways list specifies that only requests through your httpbin-gateway are allowed. All other external requests will be rejected with a 404 response.

> ### Step 5 Enable DLB Connection Load Balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 5 Enable DLB Connection Load Balancing
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: EnvoyFilter
metadata:
  name: dlb
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  workloadSelector:
    labels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  configPatches:
  - applyTo: LISTENER
    match:
      context: GATEWAY
    patch:
      operation: MERGE
      value:
        connection_balance_config:
            extend_balance:
              name: envoy.network.connection_balance.dlb
              typed_config:
                "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.network.connection_balance.dlb.v3alpha.Dlb
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> It is expected if you check the log of ingress gateway pod `istio-ingressgateway-xxxx` and get logs like below:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is expected that if you check the log of ingress gateway pod `istio-ingressgateway-xxxx` you will see log entries similar to:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ export POD="$(kubectl get pods -n istio-system | grep gateway | awk '{print $1}')"
$ kubectl logs -n istio-system ${POD} | grep dlb
2023-05-05T06:16:36.921299Z     warning envoy config external/envoy/contrib/network/connection_balance/dlb/source/connection_balancer_impl.cc:46        dlb device 0 is not found, use dlb device 3 instead     thread=35
{{< /text >}}

> Envoy will auto detect DLB device and choose the available one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy will auto detect and choose the DLB device.
```

### Step 6 Test

{{< text bash >}}
$ export HOST="<YOUR-HOST-IP>"
$ export PORT="$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http2")].nodePort}')"
$ curl -s -I -HHost:httpbin.example.com "http://${HOST}:${PORT}/status/200"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
server: istio-envoy
...
{{< /text >}}

Note that you use the `-H` flag to set the Host HTTP header to `httpbin.example.com` since now you have no DNS binding for that host and are simply sending your request to the ingress IP.

You can also add the DNS binding in `/etc/hosts` and remove `-H` flag:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "$HOST httpbin.example.com" >> /etc/hosts

> $ curl -s -I "http://httpbin.example.com:31598/status/200"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ curl -s -I "http://httpbin.example.com:${PORT}/status/200"
```

Author: Good catch! Thanks!

  # If you installed Istio using Helm following the standard documentation, this would be "istio=ingress"

  selector:

    istio: ingressgateway

  servers:

  - port:

      number: 80

      name: http

      protocol: HTTP

    hosts:

    - "httpbin.example.com"

EOF

$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF

apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3

kind: VirtualService

metadata:

  name: httpbin

spec:

  hosts:

  - "httpbin.example.com"

  gateways:

  - httpbin-gateway

  http:

  - match:

    - uri:

        prefix: /status

    - uri:

        prefix: /delay

    route:

    - destination:

        port:

          number: 8000

        host: httpbin

EOF

{{< /text >}}

You have now created a virtual service configuration for the httpbin service containing two route rules that allow traffic for paths /status and /delay.

The gateways list specifies that only requests through your httpbin-gateway are allowed. All other external requests will be rejected with a 404 response.

### Step 5 Enable DLB Connection Load Balance

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF

apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3

kind: EnvoyFilter

metadata:

  name: dlb

>   namespace: istio-system

Author: Update.
